h1. yab_review_rating

p. A comment based rating system for articles.

p. *Version:* 0.6

h2. Table of contents

# "Plugin requirements":#help-section02
# "Configuration":#help-config03
# "Tags":#help-section05
# "Examples":#help-section09
# "Changelog":#help-section10
# "License":#help-section11
# "Author contact":#help-section12

h2(#help-section02). Plugin requirements

p. yab_review_rating's  minimum requirements:

* Textpattern 4.x

h2(#help-config03). Configuration

Open the plugin code. the first function contains the configuration values. There is a min and a max values for the rating. Valid values are 0-255.

h2(#help-section05). Tags

h3. yab_review_rating

Place this in your comment form. It will show the rating of the current comment.
Can be used elsewhere. If not used in comment context as comments_form or recent_comments you have to fill the id attribute.

*id:* integer (comment id)
Default: __no set__
Show the rating of a comment with this ID. Useful in a non comment context.

*char:* a valid string
Default: __no set__
If empty (default) the output will be the rating number. If a char (e.g. a asterisk @*@) is set the output will be the n-times repeated char, where n is the rating.

h3. yab_review_rating_input

The form element for the rating. Should be placed in the @comment_form@ form.

*type:* input type (text, select, radio, number, range)
Default: text
The type of the form element for the rating. Valid value are @text@, @select@, @radio@, @number@ and @range@.

*html_id:* HTML id name
Default: __not set__
The HTML id attribute applied to the element.

*class:* HTML class name
Default: __not set__
The HTML/CSS class attribute applied to the element.

*reverse:* integer|string (a non-null value)
Default: 0
If reverse is given the output of the select or radio type is displayed in reverse order.

*break:* breakpoint (br|__empty__)
Default: 'br'
Breakpoints für radio intputs. Can be empty or @br@.

*default:* integer
Default: __not set__
Preselected rating value (Could be any number between your min and max values).

h3. yab_review_rating_average

Display the average rating for a given article.

*id:* string (comma-separated article ids)
Default: __no set__
The IDs of articles. If not set it must be placed in an article form (article context).

*only_visible:* integer|bool (1|0)
Default: 1
If set to 0 all comments (spam and moderated comments too) will be calculated.

*exclude:* string (a comma separated list of ratings)
Default: __null__
Exclude these ratings from the average rating calculation. So you can exclude '0' values for not rated articles, due 0 is the default value. Depending on your rating system setting.

*default:* string (Text)
Default: 'not yet rated'
The default text on articles without a rating.

*decimals:* integer
Default: 1
Define the decimal precision of the calculation and the output.

*separator:* string (string|empty)
Default: . (perdiod)
Choose your decimal separator. Can be empty (separator will be omitted) for HTML class friendly output.

*round_to_half*: string (up|down|)
Default: __no net__
Round to first half integer up or down or not at all. If not set the last decimal is automatically rounded up.

h2(#help-section09). Examples

h3. Example 1

Example of @yab_review_rating_input@ in a @comment_form@ form.

bc.. <txp:comments_error wraptag="ul" break="li" />
	<div class="message">
		<p><label for="name">Name:</label><br /><txp:comment_name_input /></p>
		<p><label for="email">Mail (not required, not visible):</label><br />
			<txp:comment_email_input /></p>
		<p><label for="yab-rr-rating">Rating</label><br />
			<txp:yab_review_rating_input html_id="yab-rr-rating" type="select" reverse="1" default="3" /></p>
		<p><label for="message">Review:</label><br />
			<txp:comment_message_input /></p>
		<p class="submit"><txp:comments_help /><txp:comment_preview /><txp:comment_submit /></p>
</div>

p. Will produce a comment form for article reviews (e.g. with yab_shop). The select dropdown menu for the rating is in reversed order (highest top) and the preselected rating value is 3.

h3. Example 2

Example of @yab_review_rating@ in a @comments@ form.

bc.. <h3 class="commenthead"><txp:comment_permlink>#</txp:comment_permlink> - <txp:comment_name /> wrote at <txp:comment_time />:</h3>
<span class="rating">Rating: <txp:yab_review_rating char="*" /></span>
<txp:comment_message />

p. Will produce a comment/review with the name, text and time of the comment and the rating with asterisks @*@.

h3. Example 3

Example of @yab_review_rating@ in a @comments@ form.

bc.. <h3 class="commenthead"><txp:comment_permlink>#</txp:comment_permlink> - <txp:comment_name /> wrote at <txp:comment_time />:</h3>
<span class="rating rating-value-<txp:yab_review_rating />">Rating:</span>
<txp:comment_message />

p. Will produce a the a comment/review with the name, text and time of the comment and the rating as HTML/CSS class.

h3. Example 4

Example @yab_review_rating_average@.

bc.. <txp:yab_review_rating_average id="12" exclude="0" decimals="2" separator="" round_to_half="down" />

p. Say the article with the ID 12 do have 3 reviews: One with a rating of 0 and two with a rating of 4 each. The output will exclude the 0 from the calculation. So only the two 4-ratings will be used 4+4 = 8÷2 = 4. Average rating is 4. But we have decimals precision of 2, so it will be 4.00. No rounding required but the separator will be ommitted: 400 will be displayed.
exclude="0" decimals="2" separator="" round_to_half="down" />

bc.. <txp:yab_review_rating_average id="12" decimals="2" separator="" round_to_half="down" />

p. Here we calculate an average from all reviews/ratings. Like above we have two 4 and 0-rating. So the rating is 0+4+4 = 8÷3 = 2.6666666667. Now we round to half down: 2.500000000 and use the decimal precision of 2: 2.50 and ommit the separator: 250.

h2(#help-section10). Changelog

* v0.1: 2013-12-24
** initial release
* v0.2: 2014-01-08
** new: added a the tag @<txp:yab_review_rating_average />@
* v0.3: 2014-01-12
** new: added the id attribute to @<txp:yab_review_rating />@
** modify: @<txp:yab_review_rating />@ can now be used in @<txp:recent_comments />@
* v0.4: 2014-01-16
** new: added reverse attribute to @<txp:yab_review_rating_input />@
** new: added only_visible attribute to @<txp:yab_review_rating_average />@
** modify: id attribute of @<txp:yab_review_rating_average />@ can now contain list of article ids
* v0.5: 2017-02-10
** TXP 4.6-ready
* v0.6: 2017-03-09
** bugfix: handle comment UI correctly, prevent rating resets to 0 if comment status is changed

h2(#help-section11). Licence

This plugin is released under the GNU General Public License Version 2 and above
* Version 2: "http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html":http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html
* Version 3: "http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html":http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html

h2(#help-section12). Author contact

* "Plugin on author's site":http://www.yablo.de/article/475/yab_review_rating-a-comment-based-rating-system-for-textpattern
* "Plugin on GitHub":https://github.com/trenc/yab_review_rating
* "Plugin on textpattern forum":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=40374
* "Plugin on textpattern.org":http://textpattern.org/plugins/1285/yab_review_rating
